>> New research into channeling
is getting closer to validating
and explaining the ancient
practice and is showing that
everyone has the innate
ability to channel.
This is Gaia News.
>> While the practice of
channeling has existed
throughout all of history,
it has always been shrouded
in mystery and misunderstanding.
Dr. Helané Wahbeh is
the director of research
for the Institute of
Noetic Sciences, or IONS,
whose mission is to reveal
the interconnected nature
of reality through
scientific exploration.
Dr. Wahbeh has been
practicing and researching
channeling for decades.
She is the author of
the newly released book,
"The Science of Channeling".
>> The way I define channeling
is the process of accessing
information and energy beyond
our conventional notions
of time and space that can
appear receptive or expressive.
We propose that
anybody can channel,
that it's actually this
innate human capacity
that everybody has.
The channeling phenomenon
exists on a spectrum,
from perhaps
intuition and hunches
that everyone could
probably say that they've
had at one time or another,
to more rare experiences,
like trance channeling, or
mediumship, or mind over
matter psychokinesis.
And then you have
everything in between,
like being able to
sense the future
or mind-to-mind communication.
>> Dr. Wahbeh and the team
at IONS have just completed
a study in which they analyzed
the characteristics of 500
channelers to
answer the question,
what makes a channeler?
They call the
unique way in which
a channeler receives
and uses information
their noetic signature.
>> So we coined this term,
the noetic signature,
that refers to this unique
and diverse fingerprint,
if you will, of people's
channeling abilities.
And we created a measure
to be able to see
what that looks like.
We call it the
Noetic Myers-Briggs,
which is a personality test,
to be able to understand
people's channeling expression.
We have 12 different categories
of channeling or noetic
experiences that make up
this noetic signature.
>> Now that the
inventory is complete,
IONS will soon be making it
available to the public so that
everyone can assess their
own unique noetic signature.
IONS has also been doing
some fascinating research
on the genetic basis of
channeling abilities.
They recently completed
a study in which
they analyzed the DNA of
a group of channelers.
>> There are many, many
anecdotes where people share
that their experiences of
channeling run in family,
so we did a case control study.
We found 13 high
functioning psychics
who had various
channeling abilities.
We had them give
a saliva sample,
and we looked at their DNA.
So this TNRC18 gene was
statistically significantly
different in the channelers
versus the controls.
The controls, the
people who said
they didn't have
channeling abilities,
had the mutation whereas
all of the channelers
had the original
version of that gene.
The notion of this
supports this concept
that we actually all
have an innate capacity
to channel on some level.
>> Another area of recent
research is around where
channeled information
comes from.
>> Some people believe that
it is part of themselves,
the higher self,
collective consciousness.
And those are the
highest scored results
for what the sources are.
We have other people, like
mediums or trance channelers,
who say it's actually
deceased humans
and multidimensional beings.
We're working on various
visualization tools
to be able to see if we can
assess that in the future,
but right now, we
can't definitively
say what the source is.
On some level, it
doesn't really matter
what the source is if the
information that you're
receiving is supporting
you in some way.
>> In another fascinating
study, researchers at IONS used
the tools of quantum physics
to measure energetic shifts
created by channeling.
Using a quantum noise
generator placed
in the room where trance
channeling sessions were being
held, they found a shift
away from randomness,
indicating that there is
an objective difference
in the environment in which
channeling takes place.
More research is underway
to try to explain just
how channeling works.
>> We are developing tools
to be able to sense, perhaps,
discarnate beings or energy
that's moving during healing
sessions.
We're working on this as
part of a biofield sensor
using quantum number generators,
random number generators,
capacitance.
But what we're learning
about how it works
is that it's not a force.
So we know it's not a force,
because we experience receiving
and expressing channeling
information that's not
dependent on time and space.
So whatever mechanism is
at play with channeling
is likely not
working through what
we understand of our
materialistic paradigm that's
dependent on forces.
>> In her new book, Dr. Wahbeh
outlines practices that anyone
can do to develop their
innate channeling abilities,
which she feels
could be of great use
in today's challenging times.
>> And so any tool that we
have that can support us to go
inward and access this much
larger well of information,
could we perhaps find solutions
that we haven't been able
to find thus far to support
humanity in these incredibly
intense times?
>> For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.